The Advanced Triple-Mode Algorithmic Automatic Battery Protection System project presents an innovative solution for protection, real-time monitoring and remote management of battery health and performance. With the increasing demand for portable and battery-powered devices, ensuring efficient and safe battery usage has become essential. This project aims to address this need by developing a comprehensive system that combines the capabilities of IoT. The system utilises Arduino Uno for precise analog voltage sensing from the battery, allowing accurate measurement of battery voltage. NodeMCU, on the other hand, facilitates wireless communication via Wi-Fi, enabling remote monitoring and data visualisation through a user-friendly interface. The collected data is processed and presented in real-time using Blynk IoT platform, providing users with insights into the battery’s state of charge, voltage levels, temperature, current drawn and discharge patterns. Key features of the project include a user-friendly web dashboard accessible from smartphones or computers, real-time alerts for critical battery conditions, historical data analysis, and the ability to track battery performance trends over time. The integration of Arduino Uno, NodeMCU and Blynk is the foundation of the project. As a result the project is usable with a variety of battery types resulting in a robust and efficient battery monitoring system suitable for various applications such as renewable energy systems, portable electronics etc. Ultimately, the project contributes to enhancing battery reliability, extending battery life
